[Music]
fifteen count'em fifteen human body
parts that will disappear one day if you
ever thought that all people are built
the same think again if you thought that
all our body parts are vitally important
and wrong answer in the first part of
the descent of man Charles Darwin
identified roughly a dozen body parts
that he gleefully described as useless
or nearly useless darwin's catalog was
far from complete our bodies are
littered with the parts we don't need so
we've prepared a shocking list of 15
body parts that will disappear in the
future give us a thumbs up and keep
watching that is if you don't lose your
thumbs counting down from number 15 body
hair body hair used to protect humans
from severe weather conditions well what
about now when we have our cozy woolen
sweaters and leather jackets well
apparently most hair on the human body
serves no function so it is very likely
to get extinct in the future
besides brows perhaps they keep the
sweat from our eyes and the male facial
hair plays a significant role in
attracting the opposite sex so they tell
me
number fourteen paranasal sinuses and we
have a lot frontal Etha moodle
sphenoidal maxillary sinuses hoy in fact
no one knows why we have these
troublesome mucus line cavities perhaps
to make the head lighter hmm probably
it's not number thirteen extrinsic ear
muscles
[Music]
some animals rabbits and dogs for
example can move their ears
independently how does this happen
thanks to these exotic sounding muscles
but you know what people also have them
that's why some gifted individuals can
wiggle their ears don't envy these
muscles serve no purpose there is just
one fact they react to positive emotions
though nobody understands why
number twelve wisdom teeth
[Music]
oh ho this pain this bother why does our
bodies have to grow them just to have
them pulled out later when it's simple
because dentists have to pay for their
books
no actually it's obvious that early
humans had to chew plants in order to
get enough calories to survive but these
days only about 5% of the population has
a set of these let us be honest useless
teeth
what is more as human jaws have become
smaller in the process of evolution the
rest of the people simply don't have
space in their mouth for these teeth
back in the days when toothpaste didn't
exist they were kind of backup grinders
but nowadays we hope they will be the
first to disappear from the list
[Music]
number eleven neck rib have you never
heard about neck ribs coho boy it's a
set of cervical ribs possibly a leftover
from the age of reptiles they still
appear in less than 1% of the population
some people have such a rib only on
their left or right side while some have
both they often cause nerve and artery
problems maybe that's the reason why
most people who have them get them
removed
[Music]
number 10 Paul Morris muscle
there is a long narrow muscle running
from the elbow to the rest it is already
missing in 11% of humans today so it's a
safe bet that with time it will
disappear completely once it was
important for hanging and climbing but
nowadays let's face the truth unless
you're a martial artist or a rock
climber you wouldn't care or even notice
if it disappears
[Music]
number nine male nipples first of all
that is the question why do both men and
women have nipples well it is quite
curious in the early stages of fetal
development an unborn child is
effectively sexless or without gender
thus nipples are present in both males
and females men generally lack the
necessary levels of prolactin to
stimulate lactation and so cannot
produce milk but there are exceptions to
this rule
[Music]
number eight erect or pili muscles
did you know that these are the small
muscles that allow animals to puff up
their fur for insulation or to
intimidate others gotta see my dog ever
seen your cat looking like a porcupine
it's them these muscles are working
they're meant to ensure that an animal
seems larger than it is therefore there
is a higher chance to scare the enemy
away now it's time for a surprise humans
have such muscles - goosebumps are the
indicator of them at work we get them
when we're frightened amazed or cool
apparently we've lost most of the fur
and acquired warm claws
we don't need any additional protection
from freezing temperatures or the source
to intimidate our rivals anymore these
days we use cars for that
therefore it's likely that these muscles
will disappear with time are you
enjoying this video so far remember to
hit the like button when we're done but
wait there's more to come
[Music]
number seven appendix
why do we need it at all this narrow
muscular tube attached to the large
intestine served its purpose many
centuries ago it was a special area for
digesting cellulose when the human diet
consisted more of plants than animal
food but what about now some research
shows that this part of our body can be
in fact useful it might store special
bacteria good for those who suffer from
diarrhea
anyway the appendix may inflame and lead
to appendicitis this is considered one
of the most widespread emergencies an
immediate operation is typically needed
but it can be done through laparoscopic
surgery and only take about eight
minutes by the way did you know that
according to research men are more prone
to having appendicitis than women
[Music]
number six 13th rib
our closest cousins chimpanzees and
gorillas have an extra set of ribs what
about humans most of us have 12 except
for 8 percent of adults they have an
extra one
number five coccyx
[Music]
oh you've never heard of coccyx yeah
it's a great rock band no no what about
its other name a tailbone it's all that
is left of the tail that most mammals
still use for balance and communication
what's more there have been 100
documented cases of babies who were born
with a tail which of course makes it
challenging to buy pants anyways what is
the purpose of a tail bone there is not
well several muscles are attached to
this point and it does help us support
ourselves when we sit down and lean back
however it's not vitally important
number four third eyelid
a third eyelid you will ask do we have
it yes we humans retain a tiny fold in
the inner corner of the eye it is what
is left of a membrane birds and mammals
have had for protecting the eye and
sweeping out debris at the same time
providing visibility we don't need this
function anymore most of us are wearing
glasses so it's a high possibility that
it will disappear with time number three
Darwin's point
it is a small folded point of skin
toward the top of each year that is
occasionally found in modern humans and
many Vulcans it may be a remnant of a
larger shape that helped focus distance
sounds nowadays only 10% of people have
this greeting from the past but there is
a theory that many more are the carriers
of the gene responsible for its
appearance it just doesn't show anyway
with all the modern technologies used
for enhancing hearing it's no wonder
that is becoming extinct
[Music]
number two subclavius muscle now this is
a small muscle that stretches under the
shoulder from the first rib to the
collarbone it would be beneficial if
humans were still walking on all fours
it's not the case but some people still
have one some have none and there are a
few who have too and number one toes yes
you heard correctly scientists have
found out that humans used to walk in
balance more in the middle of their feet
but now we have gradually transferred to
balancing more on the side of our big
toe studies also show that our centre of
balance is still shifting inward so in
fact this means that humans used to rely
on their toes for balance but now they
don't use them as much if this trend
keeps up we will no longer need our toes
and when you're playing with your infant
baby's foot you'll be going this little
piggy went to the market and hey where'd
everybody go
do you think this future is a likely one
share your opinion in the comments and
share this video with your friends they
need to know what to expect in the
future
tell them it's happening next week join
us on the Brightside by clicking
subscribe
[Music]